# Problem Description

The initial motivation for this work is the task of identifying a community of people that share a common interest and are geographically co-located. A slow and somewhat restricted approach for identifying a community is using a referral system. However, such an approach is very labor intensive and hard to automate as it requires personal human to human interactions. In recent years, with the availability of large amounts of publicly available social media data, there is an increasing trend of automatically detecting such communities on social networks. However, several technical challenges still appear in this automation.

Social networking sites, such as Twitter provide a rich source of dynamic information that is potentially useful for identifying communities of people and organizations related to a specific subject. However, even accessing a tiny fraction of this massive data is difficult for third parties due to bandwidth restrictions or cost barriers imposed by commercial or privacy concerns.

A typical analysis on Twitter from the perspective of a third party that does not have a direct access to the entire data and needs to respect bandwidth and query restrictions proceeds often as follows: First, one formulates a task such as identifying a group of users potentially interested in some topic. Then, using certain heuristics, such as retrieving the followers of manually selected nodes (such as an influencer) a large set of users is identified. Alternatively, it is possible to listen to the streaming API and storing users related to twit s that contain specific keywords. The hope is that this set contains the desired community as a subset. Often, it is difficult to retrieve the individual profile data of the entire set, but even more difficult is retrieving the connections due to large number of edges.

As a concrete technical problem, we will focus on identifying the geographical locations of individual accounts, hence refining the overall information about a community. Here, the term community refers to a group of Twitter accounts that are related to a particular topic such as ‘Artificial Intelligence, Maker Movement, Finance’. A simple keyword or link based approach can easily identify a large set of candidate accounts that are interlinked. However, obtaining an accurate location information in the desired granularity (such as a city, country or a continent) becomes more difficult because only half of the accounts provide any location information, if at all.
Our observation is that the location information can often be inferred from other profile data, such as the name, language, time zone, or profile image. Even a more informative indicator is the location information of neighbors (other accounts followed or friended). However, it is difficult to obtain the latter information due to bandwidth restrictions.

In many social data analysis tasks, the common workflow is to retrieve an initial chunk of data, then making a batch analysis and then possibly refine the research question, model or algorithm and reiterate this procedure. Here, we will develop a more efficient approach that is aware of the data access restrictions.